changes on radicle vs centralized forges (#17)
radicle-dev/radicle-docs: docs/radicle.md

sidebar_label: What is Radicle?
---

> Radicle is an open-source stack for code collaboration 🌱. Built on Git, it enables developers to collaborate on code without relying on intermediaries. It's a robust, functional, and secure alternative to centralized code collaboration platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Radicle is an open-source stack for code collaboration 🌱. It enables developers to collaborate on code without relying on intermediaries. It's a robust, functional, and secure alternative to centralized code collaboration platforms.
```

It might be misleading to use the implication that when something is built on Git it enables intermediate free usage, Github is built on Git.

Read more about the vision for decentralized code collaboration [here](understanding-radicle/why-radicle.md).

## How it works

> Radicle is built on open protocols — not platforms. It was designed to provide similar functionality tocentralized code collaboration platforms, or "forges", while retaining Git’s peer-to-peer nature, building on what made distributed version control so powerful in the first place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Radicle is built on open protocols — not platforms. It was designed to provide similar functionality to centralized code collaboration platforms, or "forges", while retaining Git’s peer-to-peer nature, building on what made distributed version control so powerful in the first place.
```

## How is Radicle different from GitHub?

When coming to Radicle from a centralized code collaboration network like Github or Gitlab, you might notice that Radicle priotizes different concerns. Concretely:

1. users being in control of their identity
2. users being in control of their content
3. users being in control of their social interactions

> These concerns lead to a model for collaboration that might be familiar to the free and open source hackers of the 90s and early 200s, that is radically different to the one presented by the web 2.0 platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These concerns lead to a model for collaboration that might be familiar to the free and open source hackers of the 90s and early 2000s, that is radically different to the one presented by the web 2.0 platforms.
```

Very OG! :D

Author: lol good catch

## How is Radicle different from GitHub?

When coming to Radicle from a centralized code collaboration network like Github or Gitlab, you might notice that Radicle priotizes different concerns. Concretely:

1. users being in control of their identity
2. users being in control of their content
3. users being in control of their social interactions

These concerns lead to a model for collaboration that might be familiar to the free and open source hackers of the 90s and early 2000s, that is radically different to the one presented by the web 2.0 platforms.

> The radicle-link protocol distinguishes between two types of identities: personal and project. The first describes an actor in the system, while the second describes a (software) project on which one or more actors collaborate. In radicle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The radicle-link protocol distinguishes between two types of identities: user and project. The first describes an actor in the system, while the second describes a (software) repository within which one or more actors collaborate. In Radicle:
```

> 1. peers follow other peers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Peers follow other peers.
```

> 2. peers track projects they are interested in.

Reviewer 2: Don't we still `follow` projects, not `track`? @xla

> 2. peers track projects they are interested in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Peers track projects they are interested in.
```

> 3. peers gossip about projects. This means tracking and replicating objects from the peers they follow, about the projects they are interested in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Peers gossip about projects. This means replicating updates from the peers they follow and the projects they are interested in.
```

> It's this "trusted" social graph of peers and projects that becomes the foundation for collaboration within Radicle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These interactions create a "trusted" social graph of peers and projects that become the foundation for collaboration within Radicle.
```

Author: Here I think it should be "becomes", cause I am referring to the social graph (ie the social graph is the foundation).

Reviewer 2: You're right

> If you have already interacted with other decentralized social networks, this model might remind you of secure scuttlebutt. In fact, Radicle is heavily inspired by secure scuttlebutt's design but diverges from SSB in a few ways.

Reviewer 2: Tbh I don't think we should include this here... Let's definitely include it in the FAQ, but no need to push readers away to another project's website.

> If you have already interacted with other decentralized social networks, this model might remind you of secure scuttlebutt. In fact, Radicle is heavily inspired by secure scuttlebutt's design but diverges from SSB in a few ways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
